♪ ♪
(disco music playing)
Lisanne Skyler: 1964.
Andy Warhol shocked the art world
by making hundreds of
replicas of supermarket cartons
and presenting them as art.
♪ ♪
His most notorious
were the Brillo Boxes.
That same year, my
parents got engaged.
They married, began
collecting art,
and bought this
yellow Brillo Box.
Some thought I was crazy.
(laughs) "How could
you call that art?"
But that was part
of the fun of it,
that people would
react that way.
It was the fact it was
so out of context,
and it was a new form of art.
I loved it. I
absolutely loved it.
Lisanne: But soon after, my
father traded our Brillo Box
for a work by another artist.
The Brillo Box left
our living room
and went on a
journey of its own.
♪ ♪
Auctioneer: A million,
800 thousand.
Two million dollars.
Woman: Two million, one. Two
million, 100 thousand dollars.
Bid at two million,
200 thousand?
Narrator: Forty years later,
the same yellow Brillo Box
that my parents
acquired for $1,000...
went on to sell for
over $3 million.
This is the story
of our Brillo Box.
♪ ♪ (gavel pounds) ♪
Martin: So, question
number one is what?
Lisanne: Question number one is
how you got into collecting.
The first weekend
after you were born,
and Mom was in the hospital,
I had time on my
hands on a Saturday,
and a good friend of mine,
who was a budding art collector,
took me on a gallery round.
We very young,
and we were sort of
growing into things.
Martin: I had, uh, just
begun as an assistant DA,
and there wasn't a lot
of money to spare.
Rita: Paintings were going
in the hundreds then.
Martin: The first piece
that we wound up with
was an abstract piece
by Jake Berthot.
When my father looked at
the picture on the wall,
he wondered if the picture
wasn't out being cleaned.
(chuckles)
I had to explain to him
that this was Abstract
Expressionism,
and what he was looking
at was the picture.
Rita: You try new things
and if it's not accepted,
uh, it becomes a little...
(laughs)
conversational.
Martin: Abstract
Expressionism and Pop Art
were competing with one another.
I looked at both kinds of art,
and like a person who knew
nothing about any kind of art.
Rita: We were drawn
to what was new,
and to what was
also, at that time,
affordable.
Martin: But basically,
I think my naiveté
about the whole
scene was helpful,
because I could only buy what I liked,
and that's what you should do.
Lisanne: Tell me what you
knew about Warhol in 1969.
Rita: He was a new,
up-and-coming artist
that was working on the fringe,
the... a new type of art
that wasn't considered art.
Man: What is Pop Art, anyway?
Or how would you define it?
(in English)
Martin: A good friend of mine
introduced me to Ivan Karp,
who used to be the gallery
director of the Castelli Gallery
until he opened OK Harris.
Ivan Karp was so
important in the art world.
His relationship with his
artists and his customers,
you all felt together.
And he had a great understanding
of the artist who was
struggling for recognition
and struggling to make a
career out of his work.
Lisanne: It was at Ivan
Karp's gallery, OK Harris,
that my father first
encountered the Brillo Box.
Martin: The next piece
that we acquired
was a Brillo Box.
When I first saw it at
Mr. Karp's gallery,
it was an absolute replica
of a carton that might
have gone to some deli.
And it was the smaller
version of the Brillo Boxes.
Now, the big white Brillo Box was a
lot more expensive than the yellow,
and the yellow wasn't considered
as desirable as the white,
but there certainly
were less of them.
♪ ♪
Laura Paulson: There was something
about the "three cents off."
It was almost cute.
As one person said, "You want to
pick it up and take it home."
You could just sort of hug it.
It just had this wonderful
kind of quality to it
that was different
than the other boxes.
I think mainly because
of its scale.
Lisanne: The yellow Brillo
Box my father bought
was one of the first of the supermarket
cartons that Andy Warhol made.
Warhol and his assistants flattened
out the original cardboard boxes
made silkscreens,
then printed the
familiar graphics
of Heinz, Del Monte, Kellogg's,
Campbell's and Brillo
on wooden boxes, in a
virtual assembly line.
Warhol's East 47th
Street headquarters
soon became known
as The Factory.
And The Factory became
the place to be.
If there wasn't a Warhol, I wouldn't
have bought anybody's Brillo Box.
How many artists do you know
that could take stuff that you could
buy off a shelf in a supermarket
and turn it into a work of art
that could be sold
to the public?
And make a lot of money on it.
He was a genius.
Appropriation is a term
that we use in art history
to talk about how an artist
will borrow something
from mainstream
culture, or from a book
or from another artist
or from something.
Um, how it differs
from the term "copy,"
I think when you
appropriate something,
you tend to change
it in some way.
Warhol, by far and
away, was the biggest
and most successful
appropriation artist.
And we'd have cease
and desist letters
from Campbell's and Coca-Cola.
But they realized very quickly
that these were the most
talked-about works of
art in the country
and they should back off.
When Andy Warhol launched
his Brillo Boxes,
I think that the Brillo
company thought this was
a great advertising
position for them.
It was credibility for them,
um, on how the consumer
responded to it
because of the product that
was inside of the box.
And Warhol was no fool. The
design of the Brillo box,
it's mod, it's sexy.
It's a really great design.
Brillo.
Armaly: I think the box
just depicts cleaning.
It's a sink full of water
with bubbles in it.
The original Brillo
box was designed
by an Abstract Expressionist
painter named James Harvey.
And James was in the
school of Pollock
and many of the other
Ab Ex painters,
and yet he had a day
job to pay the bills
and then he happened to be
hired by the Brillo company
to create what would become
one of their most iconic and
recognizable symbols of the company.
Armaly: Warhol depicted the case
that got shipped from
the plant to stores.
So you saw this colored box,
with the Brillo
logo in the middle.
In today's world, that
would be a very expensive
corrugated box to
ship your product in.
Lisanne: The first big show
of the supermarket boxes
was at the Stable Gallery
in New York City.
Shiner:Critics said,"What
on Earth is this thing?
"How could this be art? What is
Warhol doing? Has he gone insane?"
Smith: It's The Emperor's New
Clothes. It's copying commercial product,
and it's a big joke and
a big sort of fake.
Shiner: Andy wanted to make it
seem as though you were walking
into the back room
of a grocery store
and had to climb through boxes.
It was his little
way of making fun
that we, as consumers,
want to buy art
just like we wanna buy bananas.
Warhol had dreams of
people walking away,
carrying a wooden box
under their arm,
um, for a very low price.
That was a bargain for
a Warhol, even then.
And yet, no one bought them.
Lisanne: When it surfaced that
the original Brillo box
was designed by the
artist James Harvey,
the artist's supporters
were incensed.
Irving Sandler: Jim's
gallery, the Graham Gallery,
put out a press
release about how
this very fine Abstract
Expressionist painter,
had, in order to
support his fine art,
had to do this base
commercial art,
and now he was being ripped
off by this Andy Warhol.
I said, "What you
should have done, Jim,
is while Andy was selling
his Brillo Boxes,
you should have been
selling signed originals
for ten cents each."
Lisanne: When
Warhol's Brillo Boxes
were sent to an
exhibition in Toronto,
they were stopped at
the Canadian border,
rejected as art and taxed
as commercial goods.
(beep) Man:Speak.
Newswoman: Andy, a Canadian
government spokesman said that your art
could not be described
as original sculpture.
Would you agree with that?
Uh, yes.
Why do you agree? Well,
because it's not original.
The Canadian incident
is one of the best,
because it really is about
the boxes themselves.
And the fact that the
Canadian government
didn't recognize the
boxes as sculpture
and wanted to charge a duty tax
because they thought they were goods,
played perfect into the
hands of the media,
and it was perfect
for Ivan and Andy
in which to capitalize
on to some degree.
Ivan was a perfect
foil for Andy.
He was almost like Howard Cosell.
(laughs)
Howard Cosell with a, you
know, with Mohammad Ali.
Newswoman: Well, isn't
this sort of a joke then,
that you're playing
on the public?
Uh, no. It gives me
something to do.
Newswoman: Well, why have
you bothered to do that?
Why not create something new?
Uh, because it's easier to do.
Rita: The reality
was, is this art?
Is this the art we're used to?
Is the European wing at the Met?
No.
There's no wing at the Met yet.
I loved it.
Martin: A Brillo box being presented as
a work of art was unusual,
but people that
appreciated Pop Art
knew that Pop Artists
were seeing things
that the public
instinctively appreciated.
He took things that originate din
the world of commercial art,
for packaging and
marketing of products,
and made them stand alone as
visually pleasurable things
to look at and own.
And all of sudden, they took
on a whole new meaning.
(phone rings)
Lisanne: In 1969, my father
bought his Brillo Box
from Ivan Karp for $1,000.
Martin: It wasn't expensive, so
I decided to take a stab.
But I noticed that there
was nothing on it
that said "Andy Warhol."
In my naiveté, I
pressed Mr. Karp
to see what he could do
about having Mr. Warhol
authenticate the piece.
So Warhol got a big chuckle
when Ivan Karp said
that the fellow who wanted
to buy his Brillo Box
insisted that he sign it.
And he graciously
accommodated it with red crayon.
It's probably the only Brillo
Box in existence that bears his...
his signature, may
he rest in peace.
♪ ♪
Rita: It was a
developmental milestone
that you were able to lift your
head and look at the camera.
And, uh, that's how you found
the picture in the album.
Lisanne: Our family album
shows me and my siblings
literally surrounded by art.
But the Brillo Box was
hard to miss
on our living room floor.
The design was beautiful. The "three
cents off" was perfect for me.
Martin: Most of our
guests were amused.
Rita: And they wanted to say,
"Put the groceries away,
put this in the kitchen."
Or "Could you recycle it?" But
we didn't have recycling.
I had it encased in Plexiglas
so it would be protected.
And it functioned as a, uh,
as a little coffee table.
(laughs)
Lisanne: What were you
wanting to protect it from?
Um, well... you.
Rita: We enclosed it in
Plexiglas to preserve it.
You could put your drink on it,
and, um... the baby.
I don't think I would
put a drink on it.
But being that it was
in the living room,
it was protected and
it could be Windexed.
But, uh...
it was there for a short time.
Lisanne: For my dad, collecting
art was also a form of investment.
But my mother believed
in holding onto things.
I didn't wanna
part with anything
because it was all so beautiful
and it was easy to bond with.
So my part was,
"Which wall?" and
"Is it straight?"
Lisanne: My father would sell
one work of art to acquire another,
or to help support
our growing family.
♪ ♪
Our walls were
constantly changing.
♪ ♪
Martin: I started out
not trying to be
a connoisseur or
anything like that,
but thinking that
something I enjoyed doing
could also just be another
way of making money grow.
I wasn't in it
purely for the money.
It was just the fact that you
could make money doing it
made it all the more enjoyable.
Rita: But it was very hard to
tell what would be worth more,
and everything that
came in the house,
to me, was worth everything.
The art would be replaced,
and the cycle would start over.
Lisanne: Years later, my
mom gave me this advice:
"Just because something seems to
have lost its value now,
doesn't mean you won't
wish you had it later."
Which brings us to 1971,
when my father
traded the Brillo Box
to get a work by the
artist Peter Young.
Peter Young was another
rising artist of the "60s,
and he had captivated the
art world with dots.
His lyrical, dreamy images were
everything the Brillo Box was not.
I've always been curious
about the mysterious artist
my father traded
our Brillo Box for,
but there isn't a single piece of
footage available of Peter.
So I imagine him
something like this.
"Young Peter Young," scene
1A, take one. Marker.
♪ ♪
♪ Say you're sorry for
leaving me alone ♪
never coming home ♪
I remember this
fellow particularly,
because one day, I was walking
with my collector friend in Soho,
and Peter Young joined us for
a stroll down the street,
and turned around and
said to the two of us,
"Why are you guys buying art?
You should be buying
real estate."
Peter Young did very
psychedelic painting,
very colorful psychedelic.
People thought he was on drugs,
but no one knew what was going
on in Peter Young's head.
Peter Young: Is it psychedelia?
To some degree, it is.
I was a meditater. I was
interested in white light.
I had a psychedelic
experience where I saw space.
I saw a pattern.
And I started painting my dots.
We were bunch of young artists
trying to find ourselves
in this world that was telling
us that painting had died.
It was an even
trade of an artist
that Dad probably
thought would, in the
end, be worth more.
Martin: I was able
to trade that box
for something I liked
a little better
and intrigued me a
little bit more.
I got something that
I hung on the wall
instead of something
that sat on the floor.
Lisanne: There are no
pictures of the Peter Young
my parents acquired,
but we believe it looked
something like this.
Or this. Or this?
What was gonna become
of Andy Warhol
when he could trade
it for a Peter Young?
You can't help
prefer a Brillo Box
to a bunch of dots.
Lisanne: But Peter
Young left New York
and relocated to
Bisbee, Arizona,
just as his career
was exploding.
He would not have a major
shown again in New York
for over 35 years.
Young: I didn't want to
keep living in New York.
And I saw how particularly
young artists
might have a run of
a season or two,
and then the caravan
passes on, you know.
♪ ♪
Lisanne: So that's how our Brillo
Box was sent on its way.
With the money they
made selling their art,
my parents were able to purchase
their first apartment
in New York,
which they then
filled with more art.
We spent every weekend as a family
at galleries all over the city.
Soon they had built a collection
that included Abstract
Expressionists, Pop Artists,
and most of all, the
Photo-Realists.
But the Brillo Box
became a family myth
and a bit of a sore point
between my mom and my dad.
Did Mom react when you
sold the Brillo Box?
Do you remember what she said?
Well, not exactly a piece that you could
say you really fell in love with.
Why not?
Well, if you get
right down to it,
it really wasn't all
that attractive.
It was just the idea
of it was more unique
than the appearance of it.
It was just a yellow box with some red
lettering on it, you know, basically.
♪ ♪
Rita: I loved it because
I loved what Andy
was trying to show us...
Things we don't look
at, and I used Brillo.
These things you related
to, that was Pop Art.
It was, art was all around us.
Art was all around us,
and that was Andy.
Lisanne:All the years I looked at
the Brillo Box in our family album,
I didn't really think about what
Warhol was trying to show us.
When I was in high
school in the "80s,
I thought of him
less as the artist
and more as the intriguing figure
who presided over nightclubs,
handed out his
Interview magazines,
and celebrated the pop
stars that I loved.
Kenny Schachter: He was
on The Love Boat TV show.
He painted portraits
of celebrities.
He really painted himself
into the picture
of our mass culture,
and he saw the
adoration with which
we ascribe to celebrities
and famous people,
which has now gone
way out of control.
Except now, we all
wanna see them die.
But then, he wanted
to celebrate them
and situate himself right
smack amongst them.
Shiner: Warhol's career
totally tanked in the "80s.
And just like in
those early days,
everything that he was making
was panned across the board.
Art critics hated it.
They said it was tacky.
It was too kitsch.
It was too "too."
It was just bad.
At his death in "87,
he was not really important
as a painter anymore.
When they showed the dollar
painting show, at Castelli,
he put him in the basement.
He needed to give Warhol a show,
and he knew he wasn't
gonna sell anything,
and... he put him
in the basement.
I mean, it's unthinkable now
that the first Dollar Bill Show,
which I remember very well,
was in the basement.
Shiner: It certainly made
him depressed and sad
that people weren't
taking him seriously,
but it wasn't a
new thing for him.
Lisanne: Many years
after Warhol's death,
I found myself in a
Los Angeles museum
filled with white Brillo Boxes.
And I began to wonder,
"Whatever happened to
our little yellow one?
Where did it go once
it left my family?"
And just as I began
to search for it,
the answer suddenly appeared.
(beeping)
♪ ♪
The yellow Brillo Box had found its
way from our living room floor
to the very center
of the art world,
the Christie's evening sale
of Post-War and
Contemporary Art.
It wasn't a faded photograph
in our family album anymore.
Over the years, we'd get these Brillo
Boxes that hadn't been well taken care of,
and its coffee marks
and spill stains.
Often these changed hands
considerably in their early days.
No one envisioned anything having
this kind of long-term value.
Lisanne:It turns out,
our yellow Brillo Box
had been bought and sold at
Christie's several times before...
the first was in 1988,one
year after Warhol's death.
Our yellow Brillo Box
traveled to London
to live with one of the most
well-known art collectors of all time,
the British advertising
executive Charles Saatchi.
Our Brillo Box didn"t
stay in England long.
In 1993, Saatchi
decided to sell.
Having a well-known owner like
Saatchi in its history,
or provenance, raised its value.
This time, it was bought by a
private collector in New York.
When that owner parted with
our Brillo Box in 1995,
following a slump
in the art market,
it was acquired for the exact same price
by the collector Robert Shapazian,
the founding director of the
Gagosian Gallery in Los Angeles.
♪ ♪
There in Los Angeles,
our yellow Brillo Box
was reunited with a family of
Warhol's supermarket cartons
and stayed in Robert Shapazian's
living room for 15 years.
Daniel Wolf: Robert understood
way ahead of anybody
the importance of the Brillo
Boxes and sought them out.
He would have known that
this one was signed
and only three were signed and
15 weren't or something.
At that time, Warhol really didn"t
sign a lot of things.
To get something signed is
a very... it is a big deal.
For those that really
are connoisseurs
and someone like Robert
Shapazian, who was,
having that signature
just clicked it for him.
♪ ♪
It was always so fantastic to
walk in and see his installation,
"cause the little, yellow "three cents
off" would sit like the crown jewel.
Smith: As I entered his home,
I turned the corner and for
a split second thought,
"Oh, he must be moving. There
are boxes on the floor."
And then thought, "Oh, no. Those are...
Those are sculpture."
I think at first he
was drawn to Duchamp,
and I think it was a
natural progression
to be led into Warhol.
There was nothing low or
high that escaped his radar.
He'd always head for the quirkiest
things that no one would want.
Paulson: He'd just
find these things.
You know, things that had... when they
all came together, they all made sense.
Mozur: There was, in
front of the table,
a porcelain Chairman Mao
who would be standing,
pointing in back of you
to a gigantic Warhol Dollar Sign.
Wolf: Down the line from
Baldassare to Rochet
to Courbet to Malevich
to Warhol to Duchamp.
The way Robert Shapazian collected was
definitely a form of self-expression.
And they were kind of like, I felt,
like his children, you know.
He was connected to
each and every one.
If it was in Robert's
apartment, it was important.
It was like, by
definition, important.
He had pieced together
in his own mind
his own sort of history
of 20th-century art
and knew that Warhol
was the master.
Wolf: There's only five people
in the world who got it.
You know, and Robert
was one of them.
Shiner: A few very prescient
collectors did truly believe
that Warhol would achieve
stardom and fame once again,
and they were absolutely right.
There was this...
All of a sudden,
this feeling amongst the
people in the art world,
and it came on everybody the
same minute, the same day,
Warhol is it.
Warhol's gonna last.
It's gonna be Warhol.
Shiner: There was a
museum environment.
There were shows happening
around the world.
People understood it
on a global level.
And then, all of a sudden,
people wanted a Warhol.
Wolf: Because I think there
was a sense that, you know,
we were entering into
this philosophy.
We were becoming aware of what he had
been showing us for the last 25 years,
you know, this is
what it's about.
And in 1995, the
Warhol market began.
And every year after that for
the next ten years, it doubled.
Lisanne: Robert Shapazian held
onto our yellow Brillo Box
until his death in 2010.
Many of his works were
donated to the Huntington
and to major museums
across the country,
including these
white Brillo Boxes.
The rest of his collection
was sent to Christie's,
where it became part of the
highly anticipated sale
of Post-War and
Contemporary Art.
And there, our yellow Brillo
Box was assigned its very own lot
and given an estimated value
of $600,000 to $800,000.
Paulson: Once it was announced
we had the Shapazian sale,
the phone was ringing and we
were calling people and saying,
"This is an opportunity to add
"one of the most important
Warhol works to your collection,
not only a Warhol work but
also the rare sculpture."
Those people came
in at our request,
and we even sent the box to
their house to see it in situ,
and how it would live
with other things.
They became very, very focused
on what an opportunity this was.
And while the estimate
was very conservative,
we all knew that it
was going to go more.
We didn't expect it to
go to where it went.
Lisanne: Our Brillo Box
had become one of just two
left in private hands.
The rest of the
yellow Brillo Boxes
had been dispersed to
museums all around the world.
One even became swallowed
by another sculpture.
And the Brillo Boxes had
come to be recognized
as a turning point in
the history of art.
Wolf: I like to think
about the Brillo Box
through Andy
deciding to make it.
And what an incredible kind
of flash of genius to say,
"Take a Brillo box,
turn it into sculpture,
and call it art."
I mean, he got what
we were about.
He said, you know, "Look.
This is what it's about.
It's about selling.
It's about making something
appealing to be bought.
He calls attention
to a world view
that is still the world we're
living today, if not more so.
We buy. We shop.
We own. We have.
You know, it's all about that.
♪ ♪
I mean, the world is
more Warholian today
than it was when he died.
(car horn honks)
♪ ♪
Lisanne: When our Brillo Box
was presented for sale
that night in 2010,
it collided with the
great recession economy.
Wall Street had collapsed and
home values were plummeting,
leaving art as one of the
few reliable investments.
Meanwhile, new buyers
from around the world,
including those from countries that
were once restricted,
were now joining the
global art market.
The art world had
completely changed
since my parents" days
as young collectors.
Good evening, ladies
and gentleman.
Welcome to Christie's and
to this evening's sale
of Post-War and
Contemporary Art.
While you're taking your seats,
I will read you the several
announcements before we begin.
The emotional attachment and the
will one has going into a sale,
thinking, "I'm going to take this home.
This is going to be mine,"
it becomes very strong, and
you have a fair amount
of responsibility to give
them a sense of expectation,
what's your worst-case scenario,
so that someone is psychologically
and financially ready
to meet the demands of what the
market has dictated that evening.
Against, sir. Five-one-nine.
Thank you. $900,0000.
Auctioneer: I'll
tell you who's next.
Brillo Box,showing on the
screen there. Lot 10.
And $420,000 starts it.
$420,000, $450,000 there...
$450,000...
Paulson: I was on the
telephone for a collector.
They wanted to be
very anonymous.
They were on a telephone
actually in the room.
So they sort of hid themselves in
the group of other bidders.
Here at $900,000.
Against you, sir.
$950,000 on the telephone.
Sir?
One million dollars in the room.
Paulson: There were so many people in
the room, as well as on telephones,
bidding for the
"Three Cents Off."
And we ended up, on the
evening of the auction,
having this fierce bidding war with an
international group of bidders of every level.
In the room, $1 million.
Gentleman's bid?
One million, fifty.
Auctioneer: Fifty was there first.
One million and fifty.
One million, 100 thousand?
One million, 150 thousand?
One million, 200 thousand?
One million, 250 thousand?
Paulson: One million, three.
Three hundred there.
Paulson: We try and hold back
and let the bidding unfold
to the point where
they can jump in
and then it's just one
against the other.
We thought there were
several points where
everyone else was going
to fall by the wayside,
and just as we thought we were
safe, someone else would pop in.
Two million dollars.
Two million, one. Two million,
one hundred thousand dollars.
Two million, 200 thousand.
Gentleman's bid here, Two million, two.
Still against you, sir.
Against you, Laura,
two million, two now.
Auctioneer: Two
million, 250 thousand.
Two million, 300 thousand.
Two million, 350 thousand.
Two million, 400 thousand.
Two million, 550 thousand.
Two million, 600 thousand.
Against you, Laura.
Two million, six now.
Two million, 600 thousand.
Now holding that two
million, six, here.
Not yours.
Selling in the room.
Two million, 650 thousand.
Something like
"Three Cents Off,"
it was so... it was so unlikely
that another one would
ever be on the market
or there would be one
in this great condition
with a great provenance and
his signature in red crayon,
and all the wonderful history.
That's what inspired that
collector to keep going.
Two million, 650 thousand
dollars on the telephone.
Not yours, sir. Standing
at a bid earlier,
at $2,650,000.
(gavel strikes) (applause)
All right, won for $2,650,000.
Lisanne: That night,
the Brillo Box
that had once been
part of my childhood,
with auction house fees,
sold for over $3 million,
and disappeared from us again.
Lisanne: Was there ever a
point where you thought about
the Brillo Box or wished
that you had kept it?
Martin: Well, very recently I
did, to my chagrin.(laughs)
The piece fetched millions.
Uh...
(chuckles)
Lisanne: What do you think would
make someone pay $3 million
for a Brillo Box now?
Martin: It's a piece
of art history...
an irreplaceable piece
of art history.
Rita: When I see the Brillo Box,
I could only have fond memories.
It was a point in time
in New York history.
in artists" lives,
and that was a point
in time in our home.
Martin: She probably would
have preferred that I kept it.
Lisanne: Why do you think she
would have preferred you kept it?
Martin: I think she had a
more innate appreciation
of art and art objects.
If it were up to her, I
would have kept all of it.
Of course, it would be great if you
could hold everything, you know.
But many years ago, that
was not an option for me.
If I wanted to get more art, I
had to sell something I had,
uh, and I often did that.
As my career in law
practice grew,
I had less and less
time for that.
Going to art galleries
every Saturday
was not something that
I was able to carry on
through the rest of my career.
Lisanne: As my siblings
and I got older,
visiting the galleries was something
we stopped doing together as a family.
And eventually, most of the
art my parents once owned
moved on to other living
rooms and other lives.
And some years later, my parents
went their separate ways too.
When I see the Brillo Box, I think about
my parents when they were young...
and the life we once
had as a family,
our life with art
all around us...
and how none of us
can really know
the things that will
endure over time.
A lot of collectors add to their
collection rather than delete.
We seemed to press
the delete button.
If I weren't around, she might very
well have done all that on her own,
maybe done better, maybe
held onto things.
Rita: It was all a gamble.
Do you like the
gamble of the NASDAQ,
or do you wanna look
at a Jake Berthot
that looks like it's missing?
It was a better lifestyle than
sitting and buying stocks,
which is a good idea too.
Martin: And it was certainly
fun to drag our kids along.
They saw things that was, I'm
sure, bewildering to them.
But to this day, I can see that
they have appreciation
for those things.
♪ ♪
Lisanne: Like, when
you think of it now,
or if you went to a show
where you saw a Brillo Box?
Um...
What could I do?
I... It had a place.
Life is change, ephemeral.
It left.
Lisanne: Sometimes it feels
like the "60s never happened.
The neighborhood of Ivan Karp's
gallery is now a shopping district,
and the site of Warhol's Factory
has been turned into
a parking garage.
But many things that were lost in
the "60s are being rediscovered.
In fact, here in Arizona
where I live now,
I have a neighbor I've
been wanting to meet.
Man: Peter Young interview, take one.
Marker.
Young: Are people rediscovering
my art and now talking about me?
I'm gonna have to make my
website a little better,
and my Wikipedia page
needs to be updated.
But everybody who
owns my paintings
are hanging onto my paintings.
I'm 75 years old and
I'm gonna drop,
one of these seasons,
and then, my paintings
will quadruple in value.
♪ ♪
(indistinct chatter)
Hello.
Well, that's pretty good
if you can remember me.
No, not quite. But I mean,
do you remember me?
I sure do.
Okay. A lot of the
horizontals kind of pop out.
Young slipped.
(laughs)
Martin: Who knows? Maybe I'll
start spending a little time,
now that I'm thinking
about it again,
maybe seeing if I can't
do what I did 30 years ago
and buy the work of
evolving artists.
And see if I can pick out
the things that are gonna
make a dent in the, uh,
in the art world.
♪ ♪
Lisanne: Today, artists appropriate
Andy Warhol's Brillo Box,
like he once did to James
Harvey's soap pad box.
The artist Charles Lutz
even made hundreds of
cardboard versions
and gave them all away for free.
People walked down
the city streets
carrying away Brillo boxes,
as Warhol once envisioned.
♪ ♪
And that's the story of
how we got our Brillo Box.
Lisanne: And one, two, three...
smile.
(camera shutter clicks)
♪ ♪
Martin: I think I can only recall
one thing we ever collected
that didn't find a taker
when I put it up for sale,
and that was a
Chiparus sculpture.
So if anybody seeing
this documentary
happens to want a Chiparus,
call me.